---
layout: post
title: "The Bright Points Project"
categories: work
date: "March 2010"
thumbnail: "../assets/img/portfolio/bright-points-project-thumbnail.png"
slug: "Creating a shared experience for visitors of the High Line."
---

As a final assignment for [Jill Nussbaum][23]'s [Design for Public Spaces][24]
course, we conceived of the Bright Points Project as a way for New Yorkers to
experience something they don't see too often--the sunset. I designed and
presented the Bright Points Project along with Angela Huang, [Chia-wei
Liu][25], and [Gene Lu][26].

  [23]: http://interactiondesign.sva.edu/faculty/profile/jill_nussbaum/
  [24]: http://interactiondesign.sva.edu/classes/designforpublicspaces/
  [25]: http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~r93122/
  [26]: http://www.genelu.com/

Situated along a stretch of abandoned elevated railway, [the High Line][27] is
a public park on Manhattan's west side. The elevated perspective lets visitors
see the goings-on of the street in a whole new way. The west side location
provides views of the Hudson River and the New Jersey skyline.

  [27]: http://thehighline.org/

{% vimeo 10528836 %}

The Bright Points Project is our idea of what a summer program at the High
Line could be. The High Line would open after hours for a limited number of
visitors just before sunset on Thursday nights (a big night for restaurant &
art gallery openings in the nearby Chelsea neighborhood).

Each visitor would receive a High Line Lantern upon arrival. The lantern would
be carried along by the visitors as they traveled north along the park from
Gansevoort Street to roughly 20th Street.

At the moment the sun sets below the Hudson, lanterns begin to illuminate,
symbolizing a continuation of the sunset and a personal duty the visitor has
in its maintenance. As lanterns come close to one another, they grow in
brightness, encouraging interactions between the program's attendees. The High
Line becomes transformed into a stream of pinpoints, each a visitor carrying
on the light left behind by the setting sun.

![][31]

Visitor's travel northward along the park's path until they reach the 17th
street amphitheater. Here, the experience culminates in the Sunset Wall. A
musician here sets the mood for visitors as they walk down the steps and place
their lantern on the wall. Lanterns flash brilliantly when placed here to
denote the receivership of the evening's light and the final stage in its
lifecycle.

{% vimeo 10565549 %}

## Process

The entire class was given the prompt to "create a networked, mobile, or
interactive installation that enhances or extends the experience of the High
Line park."

![][32]

We began with visits to the park to familiarize ourselves with the environment
and conduct man-on-the-street interviews. We asked visitors about the nature
of their visit, their use of smartphones and other technology, and what they
liked about the High Line experience. We also interviewed Blake DeBore, an
Associate with [Taconic Builders][28] and High Line & architectural
enthusiast.

  [28]: http://www.taconicbuilders.com/

![][33]

From there, we used a K-J analysis to get a better sense of where we felt we
could intervene on people's visits to the High Line. We focused on the journey
a visitor has walking the High Line; the things they would experience on that
journey; the features of the city and the surrounding landscape; and the
actions people take at the park.

Once we decided on a concept, we began to construct a user journey. By using
photograph illustrations of real people interacting with Bright Points
lanterns--and shot on the High Line itself--a user journey would aid our
audience in believing our story.

![][34]

And just to make our presentation all the more believable, we created physical
prototypes of the Bright Points Lanterns. Using an [Arduino][29]
microcontroller, the lanterns illuminate at sunset and respond to other
lanterns nearby.

  [29]: http://arduino.cc/

## Press

The Bright Points Project was featured on [Core 77][30].

  [30]: http://www.core77.com/blog/technology/sva_graduate_interaction_design_students_eye_the_high_line_16367.asp

  [31]: ../assets/img/portfolio/bright-points-project-0-620.jpg
  [32]: ../assets/img/portfolio/bright-points-project-4-620.png
  [33]: ../assets/img/portfolio/bright-points-project-1-620.png
  [34]: ../assets/img/portfolio/bright-points-project-3-620.jpg
